The Domains of Dread are an unknown number of demi-planes hidden within the [[Plane of Shadow]].

Domains of Dread don't make sense. The setting's domains don't neatly flow into one another, histories don't record a collectively remembered past, fictions spawn terrible facts, and sheltered villagers remain stubbornly ignorant about the world beyond. Ravenloft is a setting designed to cultivate uncertainty, mystery, paranoia, and dread in defiance of logic or common sense.

The characters in your [[Ravenloft]] adventures might be the first to inquire after obvious inconsistencies or to notice plain impossibilities. But why has no one before them sought answers to such unignorable questions? The [[Dark Powers]], the [[Mists]], and the nature of domains and [[Darklords]] all claim part of the answer, but ultimately they reflect aspects of the same cause: nightmare logic.

[[Ravenloft]] is inherently a vast nightmare. Most of those who experience its terrors never suspect its surreal nature; only a few gradually realize that things don't add up. Whether they do or don't, the setting's supernatural features and malicious masterminds exist to foster terror. The details described in this section are true, but truth is malleable in Ravenloft. The exact limits of the [[Dark Powers]]' influence, the Mists' reach, and the Darklords' control over their domains are purposefully vague.

As with any nightmare, the Domains of Dread aren't shackled to the laws of reality. Domains exist not to simulate a believable world, but to terrify. This flexibility provides a powerful tool to upend assumptions of safety and tailor your characters' struggles. It also encourages layers of mysteries about the nature of the setting. Is each domain unique or just one in a series of recurring nightmares? How many forms of Castle Ravenloft exist, have existed, and will yet reveal themselves in the Mists? What is truth among the Domains of Dread, and how long will that remain certain? The answers are for you to decide.

