[[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] is a patient and dramatic mastermind. His statistics are similar to those of a vampire and his spellcasting prowess is formidable, enabling him  
to face most threats directly. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] ever seeks to escape his boredom and draws challenges out for as long as it entertains him. However, if insulted, the Darklord can turn all of [[Barovia]] against his foes.

The Ancient, the Land. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] is bound to [[Barovia]] and it to him in a way few rulers or [[Darklords]] understand. As part of this relationship, [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] knows when any creature enters or dies violently within [[Barovia]]-and takes personal offense when his agents or the domain's wolves are slain. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] can also manifest a variety of dramatic effects, such as causing his voice to be heard on the wind, making his visage appear in the clouds, changing the weather, and so forth. He can't use these effects to aid him in combat, but they can make his presence known throughout the land.

Master Vampire. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] eagerly plays the parts of nobleman and gracious host, but drops these pretenses when they no longer serve him, revealing his megalomania and monstrous nature. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] believes he has no peers and eagerly cultivates servants, particularly vampire spawn. He hasn't survived for ages by being reckless, though, and he retreats or sacrifices even his favorite agents when necessary.

[[NPCs/Vistani]] Sanctuary. The ancient [[NPCs/Vistani]] fortune-teller Madame Eva makes her home in [[Barovia]]. She knows much of [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] and has occasionally served as an intermediary between him and various [[NPCs/Vistani]] bands when it serves her own mysterious goals. As part of this arrangement, [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] avoids harming [[NPCs/Vistani]] who travel within his land.

Closing the Borders. [[NPCs/Strahd/Strahd|Strahd]] closes [[Barovia]]'s borders whenever something that interests him threatens to escape, surrounding the domain with poisonous mist. Those who enter the Mists choke and are affected as detailed in "The Mists" section at the start of this chapter.