Known throughout Ravenloft, the Mists are manifestations of the Dark Powers' will. They divide, surround, and isolate every domain, creating fog-shrouded borders that imprison Darklords within their territories. The Mists slip through the Domains of Dread, rising to claim unwitting travelers or releasing terrors upon unsuspecting villagers. Most infamously, the Mists slither into other worlds to claim innocents, villains, or whole lands, dragging them back to become the newest prisoners of Ravenloft.

Inhabitants of the Domains of Dread know of the Mists and ascribe sinister stories to them, but they accept the Mists as a natural part of their homeland. Many who travel between domains even refer to their world as the Land of the Mists. Any supernatural happening, inexplicable disappearance, or malicious force can be blamed on the Mists, and those who interact with the Mists or who come from beyond them are met with suspicion. The Mists confound travel between domains, whether one wishes to leave a place to reach another land or to escape the realm they're in.

Beyond these truths, the Mists are your tool to establish the boundaries ofyour horror stories. See the "Nature of Ravenloft" section in chapter 3 for details on employing the Mists to focus your horror adventures, leading characters to engage with certain elements while cloaking others in mystery.

The Mists can always b e found a t a domain's bor­ ders but can also appear in dense banks that rise wherever adventures demand. Such banks might veil strangers or hidden foes, or they can trans­ port those who enter them to distant lands, other domains, or even beyond the Domains of Dread. The Mists are inscrutable, but they ever serve the schemes of the Dark Powers, delivering creatures wherever these wicked forces desire.

The Dark Powers also grant Darklords limited ability to manipulate the Mists surrounding their domains, allowing most to open or close their do­ mains' borders to others on a whim. If a domain's borders are closed, supernatural agitation is obvi­ ous to any who approach the Mists. This takes the form of roiling disturbances within the haze, menac­ ing silhouettes, threatening sounds, or other activity themed to the Darklord or domain. Creatures that enter the Mists at this time, including flying crea­ tures, are subject to the following effects: